Add cloud provider guides (AWS, Azure, GCP) (#829)
memgraph/documentation: pages/deployment/gcp.mdx

---
title: Deploy Memgraph on Google Cloud Platform virtual machine 
description: Learn how to deploy your Memgraph instance on the Google Cloud platform. 
---

import { Card, Cards, Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Deploy Memgraph in the Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

This guide will show you how to deploy Memgraph on a Google virtual machine
(VM). The guide will cover only the specific bits that are different from the

> general deployment guide you can find for native [linux](./linux.mdx) or
> [docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
general deployment guide you can find for native [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.
```

This guide assumes you have a Google Cloud Platform account and are familiar
with the Google console. If you are not, you can follow the [GCP Linux VM quick
start guide
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/create-linux-vm-instance).

## Creating a new GCP VM

The first step is to have a VM running on GCP, where you will deploy Memgraph.

> Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended that
> Linux-based VMs be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended to use
Linux-based VMs.
```

Below are some guidelines to consider if you are opening a new GCP VM for
Memgraph. 

### Picking the OS 

During the VM creation, you need to pick the OS you wish to have on the VM. If
you are going to use the Memgraph native installation, you need to pick a Linux
distribution that Memgraph supports.

Memgraph supports the following Linux distributions:

- Ubuntu (20.04, 22.04)
- Fedora (38, 39)
- Debian (11, 12) 

> - Centos (7, 9) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- CentOS (7, 9) 
```

- Amazon Linux (2)
- RedHat (7, 9)
- Rocky (9.3)

This way, you will manage the native installation of Memgraph, which can bring
some speed benefits. 

If you use the Memgraph Docker image, you can pick any Linux distribution as
long as you can run Docker on it.

### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. The process highly depends

> on your actuall workload. Consider using a VM with more CPU and memory for heavy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on your actual workload. Consider using a VM with more CPU and memory for heavy
```

graph processing. 

Memgraph, by default, stores all data in the RAM, if you are going to use the
default storage mode (`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` or `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`), make
a calculation [how much data you will
need]((/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage)).
There is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The rule of thumb is to have double the memory of what your
storage would take. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding

> workload. 

Reviewer: Please refer to AWS comment for this section to fix this.

Author: Done

GCP has a suit of general purpose, memory-optimized, and compute-optimized
instances. For more details on the instance types, you can check the [GCP
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-resource). The
general-purpose instances are suitable for a wide range of workloads, while the
memory-optimized VMs are designed for in-memory databases, data analytics, and
other memory-intensive applications. If you have a larger scale, consider using
the memory-optimized instances since GCP offers them on TB scales.

### Network Setup

When creating the VM, you need to set up the firewall for network access and

> inbound port rules. By default, the Memgraph uses port 7687 for the Bolt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inbound port rules. By default, Memgraph uses port 7687 for the Bolt
```

protocol. You need to open this port for TCP traffic and to allow connections to
Memgraph. 

> If you change the default bolt port, make sure to update the inbound port rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you change the default Bolt port, make sure to update the inbound port rules
```

accordingly.

Also, if deploying the Memgraph for replication or clustering, the ports for the

> replication and clustering should be open as well.

Reviewer: Maybe link to replication/clustering? This applies to other guides as well.

### Setup the storage 

When creating the VM, you need to set up the disk storage. By default Memgraph
stores all data to working RAM, but for the [persistency between
restarts](/fundamentals/data-durability) Memgraph uses the disk storage to store
snapshots, configurations, etc.

The sizing of the storage depends on the amount of data you are going to store
in your Memgraph database, and the quantity of the snapshots you want to keep
alive. 

> The general rule of thumb is to double the storage than the amount of data you
> will store. If you are going to store 100GB of data, you should have at least
> 200GB of disk storage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general rule of thumb is to double the storage of the amount of data you
will store. If you are going to store 100GB of data, you should have at least
200GB of disk storage. 
```

## Installing Memgraph 

Depending on the way you want to deploy Memgraph, native or via Docker, you need
to follow the steps below: 

<Tabs items={["Docker" , "Linux"]}>

 <Tab> 
 
    For example, if you are using Ubuntu 20.04, you can follow the steps
    below to install Docker:

        ```bash
            sudo apt-get update
            sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common
            sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu focal stable"
            sudo apt-get update
            sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
            docker --version
        

>         ```

Reviewer: Unnecessary indentation (check deployment).

Author: Done

    Note that the steps above may vary depending on your exact Linux distribution.

>     After the docker is installed, you can pull the Memgraph image and run it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    After Docker is installed, you can pull the Memgraph image and run it:
```

        ```bash
            docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest

>         ```

Reviewer: Unnecessary indentation (check deployment).

Author: Done.

    connecting to Memgraph remotely, make sure that the port 7687 is open in [the
    firewall rules on your GCP VM](#Setup-the-network). 
 </Tab>
 
 <Tab>

 Depending on the Linux distribution you are using, you can follow the guide for
 installing Memgraph on each distribution: 

    - [Ubuntu](../getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx)
    - [Fedora](../getting-started/install-memgraph/fedora.mdx)
    - [Debian](../getting-started/install-memgraph/debian.mdx)
    - [Centos](../getting-started/install-memgraph/centos.mdx)
    - [Amazon Linux](../getting-started/install-memgraph/amazon-linux.mdx)
    - [RedHat](../getting-started/install-memgraph/redhat.mdx)
    - [Rocky](../getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx)

 </Tab> 
 
 </Tabs>

## Manage Memgraph deployment

After Memgraph is installed and running on your GCP VM, Memgraph management in
GCP VM is identical to the general guidelines that are described in the form of
a native Linux Memgraph or Docker container Memgraph. 

Depending on what you are using, you can follow the [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployment guide for more information on how to manage
the Memgraph deployment.

> # Next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```

Memgraph also supports deployment in the Kubernetes environment. If you are
interested in deploying Memgraph in Kubernetes, you can follow the [Memgraph
Kubernetes installation
guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx). 

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add OH section here, as in other guides, e.g. https://documentation-bqpg3d7vp-memgraph.vercel.app/docs/deployment/docker#where-to-next. This comment applies to other guides as well.

Author: Done

Memgraph in Docker can be deployed both on x86 and ARM architecture. All native
distributions work on x86 architecture. Some of the native distributions also
work on ARM architecture (Debian, Ubuntu), some do not (Centos, Fedora). Check
the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux) for
detailed information.

### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. If you run
Memgraph in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` (default mode) or in
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage mode, all data is stored in RAM. That means it
would be good first to calculate [how much memory you will
need](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage). There
is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The good rule of thumb is for your server to have double the memory of what your
storage was calculated to be. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding
workload. A demanding workload would be a query that traverses half of the graph
and returns half of the graph. 

> GCP has a suit of general purpose, memory-optimized, and compute-optimized

Reviewer 2: s/suit/collection

instances. For more details on the instance types, you can check the [GCP
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-resource). 

> The general-purpose instances are suitable for a wide range of workloads, and

Author: Good question, they start at 1 TB of RAM, https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/memory-optimized-machines#m3_machine_types which I find a bit much to recommend as starting point.

are good starting point for Memgraph deployment

The memory-optimized VMs are designed for large scale (> 1TB of RAM) in-memory
databases, data analytics, and other memory-intensive applications. If you have
a larger scale, consider using the memory-optimized instances since GCP offers

> them on TB scales. If the use-case is lowe use general purpose instances, such

Reviewer 2: Typo: "lowe"

general deployment guide you can find for native [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.

This guide assumes you have a Google Cloud Platform account and are familiar
with the Google console. If you are not, you can follow the [GCP Linux VM quick
start guide
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/create-linux-vm-instance).

## Creating a new GCP VM

The first step is to have a VM running on GCP, where you will deploy Memgraph.
Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended to use
Linux-based VMs.

Below are some guidelines to consider if you are opening a new GCP VM for
Memgraph. 

### Picking the OS 

During the VM creation, you need to pick the OS you wish to have on the VM. If
you are going to use the Memgraph native installation, you need to pick a Linux
distribution that Memgraph supports.

Memgraph supports multiple Linux distributions. Memgraph packages for supported distributions and versions can be downloaded 
from the [following page](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux)

Running Memgraph natively will bring some speed improvements compared to the
Docker version of Memgraph. 

> If you are going to use the Memgraph Docker image, pick any Linux.

Reviewer 2: See above

Memgraph in Docker can be deployed both on x86 and ARM architecture. All native
distributions work on x86 architecture. Some of the native distributions also
work on ARM architecture (Debian, Ubuntu), some do not (Centos, Fedora). Check
the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux) for
detailed information.

### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. If you run
Memgraph in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` (default mode) or in
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage mode, all data is stored in RAM. That means it
would be good first to calculate [how much memory you will
need](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage). There
is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The good rule of thumb is to have double the memory of what your

> storage would take. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding

Reviewer 2: See above
